README.md, before:

# A File Opener Plugin for Cordova

[![Latest Stable Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/cordova-plugin-file-opener2.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cordova-plugin-file-opener2) [![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/cordova-plugin-file-opener2.svg)](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=cordova-plugin-file-opener2)

This plugin will open a file on your device file system with its default application.

```js
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.open(
    filePath,
    fileMIMEType,
    {
        error : function(){ },
        success : function(){ }
    }
);
```

## Installation

```shell
$ cordova plugin add cordova-plugin-file-opener2
```

### Optional variables

This plugin requires the Android support library v4. From release `2.1.0` the version of this can be set at installation. The minimum version is `24.1.0`. Default value is `27.+`. [Check out the latest version](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/support-library/revisions.html).

```shell
$ cordova plugin add cordova-plugin-file-opener2  --variable ANDROID_SUPPORT_V4_VERSION="27.+"
```

If you are using the `cordova-android-support-gradle-release` plugin it should match the value you have set there.

## Requirements

The following platforms and versions are supported by the latest release:

- Android 4.4+ / iOS 9+ / Windows / Electron
- Cordova CLI 7.0 or higher

Cordova CLI 6.0 is supported by 2.0.19, but there are a number of issues, particularly with Android builds (see [232](https://github.com/pwlin/cordova-plugin-file-opener2/issues/232) [203](https://github.com/pwlin/cordova-plugin-file-opener2/issues/203) [207](https://github.com/pwlin/cordova-plugin-file-opener2/issues/207)). Using the [cordova-android-support-gradle-release](https://github.com/dpa99c/cordova-android-support-gradle-release) plugin may help.

### AndroidX Support

Currently if your project requires AndroidX support, you need to add the following two plugins to your project:

- [cordova-plugin-androidx](https://github.com/dpa99c/cordova-plugin-androidx/) and [cordova-plugin-androidx-adapter](https://github.com/dpa99c/cordova-plugin-androidx-adapter/)
```shell
$ cordova plugin add cordova-plugin-androidx
$ cordova plugin add cordova-plugin-androidx-adapter
```
Just adding these plugins should be enough and no further changes are necessary.


## fileOpener2.open(filePath, mimeType, options)

Opens a file

### Supported Platforms

- Android 4.4+
- iOS 9+
- Windows
- Electron

### Quick Examples
Open an APK install dialog:

```javascript
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.open(
    '/Downloads/gmail.apk',
    'application/vnd.android.package-archive'
);
```

Open a PDF document with the default PDF reader and optional callback object:

```js
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.open(
    '/Download/starwars.pdf', // You can also use a Cordova-style file uri: cdvfile://localhost/persistent/Downloads/starwars.pdf
    'application/pdf',
    {
        error : function(e) {
            console.log('Error status: ' + e.status + ' - Error message: ' + e.message);
        },
        success : function () {
            console.log('file opened successfully');
        }
    }
);
```

__Note on Electron:__ Do not forget to enable Node.js in your app by adding `"nodeIntegration": true` to `platforms/electron/platform_www/cdv-electron-settings.json` file, See [Cordova-Electron documentation](https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/latest/guide/platforms/electron/index.html#customizing-the-application's-window-options).

### Market place installation
Install From Market: to install an APK from a market place, such as Google Play or the App Store, you can use an `<a>` tag in combination with the `market://` protocol:

```html
<a href="market://details?id=xxxx" target="_system">Install from Google Play</a>
<a href="itms-apps://itunes.apple.com/app/my-app/idxxxxxxxx?mt=8" target="_system">Install from App Store</a>
```
or in code:

```js
window.open("[market:// or itms-apps:// link]","_system");
```

## fileOpener2.showOpenWithDialog(filePath, mimeType, options)

Opens with system modal to open file with an already installed app.

### Supported Platforms

- Android 4.4+
- iOS 9+

### Quick Example

```js
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.showOpenWithDialog(
    '/Downloads/starwars.pdf', // You can also use a Cordova-style file uri: cdvfile://localhost/persistent/Downloads/starwars.pdf
    'application/pdf',
    {
        error : function(e) {
            console.log('Error status: ' + e.status + ' - Error message: ' + e.message);
        },
        success : function () {
            console.log('file opened successfully');
        },
        position : [0, 0]
    }
);
```
`position` array of coordinates from top-left device screen, use for iOS dialog positioning.

## fileOpener2.uninstall(packageId, callbackContext)

Uninstall a package with its ID. 

__Note__: You need to add `<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.REQUEST_DELETE_PACKAGES" />` to your `AndroidManifest.xml`

### Supported Platforms

- Android 4.4+

### Quick Example
```js
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.uninstall('com.zynga.FarmVille2CountryEscape', {
    error : function(e) {
        console.log('Error status: ' + e.status + ' - Error message: ' + e.message);
    },
    success : function() {
        console.log('Uninstall intent activity started.');
    }
});
```

## fileOpener2.appIsInstalled(packageId, callbackContext)

Check if an app is already installed.

### Supported Platforms

- Android 4.4+

### Quick Example
```javascript
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.appIsInstalled('com.adobe.reader', {
    success : function(res) {
        if (res.status === 0) {
            console.log('Adobe Reader is not installed.');
        } else {
            console.log('Adobe Reader is installed.')
        }
    }
});
```
---

## Android APK installation limitation

The following limitations apply when opening an APK file for installation:
- On Android 8+, your application must have the `ACTION_INSTALL_PACKAGE` permission. You can add it by adding this to your app's `config.xml` file:
```xml
<platform name="android">
    <config-file parent="/manifest" target="AndroidManifest.xml" xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
        <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.REQUEST_INSTALL_PACKAGES" />
    </config-file>
</platform>
```

- Before Android 7, you can only install APKs from the "external" partition. For example, you can install from `cordova.file.externalDataDirectory`, but **not** from `cordova.file.dataDirectory`. Android 7+ does not have this limitation.

---

## SD card limitation on Android

It is not always possible to open a file from the SD Card using this plugin on Android. This is because the underlying  Android library used [does not support serving files from secondary external storage devices](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40318116/fileprovider-and-secondary-external-storage). Whether or not your the SD card is treated as a secondary external device depends on your particular phone's set up.

---

## Notes

- For properly opening _any_ file, you must already have a suitable reader for that particular file type installed on your device. Otherwise this will not work.

- [It is reported](https://github.com/pwlin/cordova-plugin-file-opener2/issues/2#issuecomment-41295793) that in iOS, you might need to remove `<preference name="iosPersistentFileLocation" value="Library" />` from your `config.xml`

- If you are wondering what MIME-type should you pass as the second argument to `open` function, [here is a list of all known MIME-types](http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/httpd/httpd/trunk/docs/conf/mime.types?view=co)


---

Commit message:

Electron Platform 3+ Context Bridge setup and update Readme.

README.md, after:

# A File Opener Plugin for Cordova

[![Latest Stable Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/cordova-plugin-file-opener2.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cordova-plugin-file-opener2) [![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/cordova-plugin-file-opener2.svg)](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=cordova-plugin-file-opener2)

This plugin will open a file on your device file system with its default application.

```js
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.open(
    filePath,
    fileMIMEType,
    {
        error : function(){ },
        success : function(){ }
    }
);
```

## Installation

```shell
$ cordova plugin add cordova-plugin-file-opener2
```

### Optional variables

This plugin requires the Android support library v4. From release `2.1.0` the version of this can be set at installation. The minimum version is `24.1.0`. Default value is `27.+`. [Check out the latest version](https://developer.android.com/topic/libraries/support-library/revisions.html).

```shell
$ cordova plugin add cordova-plugin-file-opener2  --variable ANDROID_SUPPORT_V4_VERSION="27.+"
```

If you are using the `cordova-android-support-gradle-release` plugin it should match the value you have set there.

## Requirements

The following platforms and versions are supported by the latest release:

- Android 4.4+ / iOS 9+ / Windows / Electron
- Cordova CLI 7.0 or higher

Cordova CLI 6.0 is supported by 2.0.19, but there are a number of issues, particularly with Android builds (see [232](https://github.com/pwlin/cordova-plugin-file-opener2/issues/232) [203](https://github.com/pwlin/cordova-plugin-file-opener2/issues/203) [207](https://github.com/pwlin/cordova-plugin-file-opener2/issues/207)). Using the [cordova-android-support-gradle-release](https://github.com/dpa99c/cordova-android-support-gradle-release) plugin may help.

### AndroidX Support

Currently if your project requires AndroidX support, you need to add the following two plugins to your project:

- [cordova-plugin-androidx](https://github.com/dpa99c/cordova-plugin-androidx/) and [cordova-plugin-androidx-adapter](https://github.com/dpa99c/cordova-plugin-androidx-adapter/)
```shell
$ cordova plugin add cordova-plugin-androidx
$ cordova plugin add cordova-plugin-androidx-adapter
```
Just adding these plugins should be enough and no further changes are necessary.


## fileOpener2.open(filePath, mimeType, options)

Opens a file

### Supported Platforms

- Android 4.4+
- iOS 9+
- Windows
- Electron

### Quick Examples
Open an APK install dialog:

```javascript
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.open(
    '/Downloads/gmail.apk',
    'application/vnd.android.package-archive'
);
```

Open a PDF document with the default PDF reader and optional callback object:

```js
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.open(
    '/Download/starwars.pdf', // You can also use a Cordova-style file uri: cdvfile://localhost/persistent/Downloads/starwars.pdf
    'application/pdf',
    {
        error : function(e) {
            console.log('Error status: ' + e.status + ' - Error message: ' + e.message);
        },
        success : function () {
            console.log('file opened successfully');
        }
    }
);
```

__Note on Electron:__ The previous version of FileOpener2 required "nodeIntegration": true to be set, see [Cordova-Electron documentation](https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/latest/guide/platforms/electron/index.html#customizing-the-application's-window-options). With Cordova 9+ and Electron Platform 3.0.0 the context bridge uses secure Node.js execution and requires no changes to settings to execute Node.js code. This version of FileOpener2 uses the context bridge for plugins and requires no additional configuration changes on Electron PLatform 3+.

### Market place installation
Install From Market: to install an APK from a market place, such as Google Play or the App Store, you can use an `<a>` tag in combination with the `market://` protocol:

```html
<a href="market://details?id=xxxx" target="_system">Install from Google Play</a>
<a href="itms-apps://itunes.apple.com/app/my-app/idxxxxxxxx?mt=8" target="_system">Install from App Store</a>
```
or in code:

```js
window.open("[market:// or itms-apps:// link]","_system");
```

## fileOpener2.showOpenWithDialog(filePath, mimeType, options)

Opens with system modal to open file with an already installed app.

### Supported Platforms

- Android 4.4+
- iOS 9+

### Quick Example

```js
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.showOpenWithDialog(
    '/Downloads/starwars.pdf', // You can also use a Cordova-style file uri: cdvfile://localhost/persistent/Downloads/starwars.pdf
    'application/pdf',
    {
        error : function(e) {
            console.log('Error status: ' + e.status + ' - Error message: ' + e.message);
        },
        success : function () {
            console.log('file opened successfully');
        },
        position : [0, 0]
    }
);
```
`position` array of coordinates from top-left device screen, use for iOS dialog positioning.

## fileOpener2.uninstall(packageId, callbackContext)

Uninstall a package with its ID. 

__Note__: You need to add `<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.REQUEST_DELETE_PACKAGES" />` to your `AndroidManifest.xml`

### Supported Platforms

- Android 4.4+

### Quick Example
```js
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.uninstall('com.zynga.FarmVille2CountryEscape', {
    error : function(e) {
        console.log('Error status: ' + e.status + ' - Error message: ' + e.message);
    },
    success : function() {
        console.log('Uninstall intent activity started.');
    }
});
```

## fileOpener2.appIsInstalled(packageId, callbackContext)

Check if an app is already installed.

### Supported Platforms

- Android 4.4+

### Quick Example
```javascript
cordova.plugins.fileOpener2.appIsInstalled('com.adobe.reader', {
    success : function(res) {
        if (res.status === 0) {
            console.log('Adobe Reader is not installed.');
        } else {
            console.log('Adobe Reader is installed.')
        }
    }
});
```
---

## Android APK installation limitation

The following limitations apply when opening an APK file for installation:
- On Android 8+, your application must have the `ACTION_INSTALL_PACKAGE` permission. You can add it by adding this to your app's `config.xml` file:
```xml
<platform name="android">
    <config-file parent="/manifest" target="AndroidManifest.xml" xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
        <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.REQUEST_INSTALL_PACKAGES" />
    </config-file>
</platform>
```

- Before Android 7, you can only install APKs from the "external" partition. For example, you can install from `cordova.file.externalDataDirectory`, but **not** from `cordova.file.dataDirectory`. Android 7+ does not have this limitation.

---

## SD card limitation on Android

It is not always possible to open a file from the SD Card using this plugin on Android. This is because the underlying  Android library used [does not support serving files from secondary external storage devices](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40318116/fileprovider-and-secondary-external-storage). Whether or not your the SD card is treated as a secondary external device depends on your particular phone's set up.

---

## Notes

- For properly opening _any_ file, you must already have a suitable reader for that particular file type installed on your device. Otherwise this will not work.

- [It is reported](https://github.com/pwlin/cordova-plugin-file-opener2/issues/2#issuecomment-41295793) that in iOS, you might need to remove `<preference name="iosPersistentFileLocation" value="Library" />` from your `config.xml`

- If you are wondering what MIME-type should you pass as the second argument to `open` function, [here is a list of all known MIME-types](http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/httpd/httpd/trunk/docs/conf/mime.types?view=co)


---
